# CS-305-Portfolio Sarah Tomlinson
Portfolio for CS-305 Assignments
 
**Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and its software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did the company want you to address?**

> Artemis Financial is a financial consuling company that develops plans for their customers in savings, retirement, investments and insurance. They wanted to modernize their operations with custom software for their customers and ensure that the software maintained the highest software security standards possible. They wanted me to address the issue of protecting their client data and sensitive financial information.

**What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?**

> In discovering vulnerabilites within the software I was able to concisely deliver a report to Artemis Financial with the vulnerabilities found and how to address them, being sure to identify and suppress false positive results along the way. Coding securely is extremely important for multiple reasons, including but not limited to best software development practices, governmental regulations, protecting sensitive data, building client trust, and preventing security attacks through proactive coding processes. Providing dependable software security contribute's to a company's overall well-being by building a foundation of trust with current and future clients, allowing for a potential increase in revenue and continued growth. It also adds value by protecting company and client information, avoiding potential fines and harmful side effects of security breaches. Overall, coding securely is important for the success of both the developer as well as the company, and the team should work together to ensure released code is secure and dependable.

**Which part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?**

> The biggest challenge I faced in the vulnerability assessment was identifying false positives, as this was something completely new to me, and I had to do an exorbitant amount of research in order to understand what to look for and how to identify them. I also had some challenge getting my supression file to be recognized, but this was actually the most helpful part of the vulnerability assessment because I feel that I learned the most amount of information that I could take forward to other courses about this new (to me) file type.

**How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use? How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?**

> There are a few ways that I increased the level of security in the program, including using strong encryption standards (SHA-256), using checksum verification to check the unique output hash, and refactoring the code to utilize HTTPS rather than an HTTP using a self-signed certificate. The code is also designed to be reusable and singular by writing a method only used to convert bytes to a Hex string. In the future I would use similar practices to identify vulnerabilities. The dependency checking is extremely useful for identifying where versions of softwares used should be upgraded to current versions, which is a very easy and simple way to ensure security in the program. Determining what further mitigation techniques to use is on a case by case basis because programs for different uses will have different requirements, but I would generally follow the same process of examining the code to look for input validation, error handling, etc. to determine where updates need to be made. In this case, once the code was refactored, I ran an additional vulnerability check and compared it to the first check to ensure that no additional vunlerabilites had been introduced, and ensuring that the false positives were suppressed properly.

**What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?**

> The Maven build dependency checker is useful to determine where updates need to be made and where vulnerabilities are. In additon, being able to use checksum verification to verify how the program is oupting data is extremely useful and could be useful in future assignments and tasks. I had worked with RESTful API prior to this assignment, but I feel like in the course of doing this assignment I actually was able to grasp a better understanding of it, and therefore will be able to easier implement it into future projects and assignments.
 
**Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?**

> From this assignment, I would likely show them either the entire Software Report or show them the self-signed certificate generation process I took or the refactored code that includes my method for converting a byte into a SHA-256 Hex String and my description of how the algorithm cipher actually works. I have a love of cryptography and it's principles that I think comes across in those parts of this assignment, and that passion is something I would love to have come across to any potential employer.
